Tufts CS 131: Artificial Intelligence
Homework 5: Naive Bayesian Classification
By Zeno Marquis
4/25/2024

Project:
Naïve Bayesian Classifier for differentiating birds from planes based on radar
data

Overview:
The program uses two features (speed and speed variability) in a Naive Bayesian
Classification model to classify birds and planes. The program takes labeled
training data to develop likelihood functions for the variables and classes.
The total program is split into two program files: one to generate variability
data, and the other to process the data in order to differentiate objects
according to the testing data. Speed variability is calculated as the second-
to-second difference in speed.  

Assumptions:
The program relies on Bayesian reasoning, meaning that it makes probabilistic
inferences and not perfectly conclusive statements. If the test data does not
follow patterns in the training data, or if a sample contains a high number of
outliers, the program could be unsure or produce a likelihood that marks the
true value of the object as unlikely. 

Usage:
Compile the program in the command line by executing "make Bayesian", followed
by "make Generate". 

To run the program, execute the following command in the command line:
./Generate dataset.txt testing.txt variation_data.txt variation_likelihoods.txt

Followed by:
./Bayesian testing.txt likelihood.txt variation_data.txt variation_likelihoods.txt

Outputs:
The program will output its classification results to the terminal. The file
variation_likelihoods.txt will contain the likelihoods of speed variation values
for birds and planes. The file variation_data.txt will contain the 
second-to-second speed variation for all objects in the testing data.


Files:
    bayesian.cpp - classifier for the program

    generate_var.cpp - program for extracting speed variability likelihood data
    from the dataset and variability data from the test set

    Makefile - builds the program


Testing:
Results of the program can be seen by running it on the test set (as outlined
in the usage section above). The program is deterministic, and correctly
classifies all 10 objects in the test data.



